## [Center For Fungus Control](https://github.com/jsmit257/centerforfunguscontrol)
A front-end to drive an instance of a [huautla](https://jsmit257.github.io/huautla) database.

### Requirements

#### Standalone Deployment
- docker/docker-compose (required): if you can get a docker daemon running and find a way to run `docker-compose` commands, either in the CLI, scheduled actions, `systemd` services, or whatever, then you can run this application standalone with persistence between restarts. Sounds really simple, and it is, but you should [read this](./standalone/docker-compose.yml) before continuing. More on deployment [elsewhere](#deployment)
- postgresql (optional): this is really only useful if you already have one, or have always wanted a reason to have one, and want to use it to manage your own backups, failover, etc. The default datasource will still start, unless you turn it off as a dependency in the `cffc-standalone:` service. More details about the data store can be found in [deployment](#deployment)

#### Development
- [Standalone Deployment Requirements](#standalone_deployment)
- golang development environment: 1.22.1 for now
- `git`: repo is public, but you'll need an account to push from to submit a pull-request
- `make`: you could work around it, but `Makefile` is a good place to write things down
- postgresql (optional) maybe easier if you have one, or at least the `postgres-client` tools (`psql`, `pg_dump`, `pg_restore`, etc)

### Docker
Docker images are the only build artifacts from this project, hosted on [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jsmit257/cffc/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated). Proper semantic or other versioning is still in committee, for now the `:lkg` tag LGTM.

Production images use the statically-compiled application from [./ingress/http/main.go] as `entrypoint`, and a copy of [./www] to host the UI static resources.

### Running

#### Database
See [local huautla](https://github.com/jsmit257/huautla/blob/master/README.md#local_database) for tips on installing using native postgres-client tools.

An arguably simpler solution is to tweak the `DEST_*` environment variables in the `migration:` service in [standalone](./standalone/docker-compose.yml), and then start it. Be sure to revert your local changes before committing anything.

#### HTTP Server
[Makefile] is your friend for local testing and building. Here's a quick overview of interesting targets:
- `tests`: 
  - runs unit tests
  - starts a vanilla instance of jsmit257/huautla.lkg for storage
  - builds the standalone docker image for `cffc:latest` including compiling the server application and copying static web resources into the container
  - starts the server container
  - runs the suite of system tests (currently, just seeds some test data)
  - tags `cffc:latest` as `jsmit257/cffc:lkg`

  The data store is a docker container and therefore has no persistence after the huautla container stops, it is strictly for building/testing.
- `run-local`: 

### API
Crap! Didn't think about documentation much

URL base paths for vendor, stage, eventtype, substrate, ingredient, strain and lifecycle resources all follow the same basic pattern:

```
GET /<url-base-path>s        the plural of the path returns all rows
GET /<url-base-path>/$id     returns the row uniquely identified by $id
POST /<url-base-path>        adds a new record to the url-base-path resource
PATCH /<url-base-path>/$id   modifies the record uniquely identified by $id
DELETE /<url-base-path>/$id  deletes the record uniquely identified by $id
```

Request and response bodies are defined by the [data type](https://github.com/jsmit257/huautla/blob/master/types/data.go) corresponding to the resource name - i.e. `http://host:port/vendor` sends and recieves JSON marked up in `type Vendor struct{...}`

A few 'irregular verbs' are defined for managing resources that are lists of attributes for their parent resource. In the cases of `substrate.ingredients`, `strain.attributes` and `lifecycle.events`, the general URL pattern is:

```
POST|PATCH /<parent-resource>/${parent_id}/<child-resource>[/${child_id}]
DELETE /<parent-resource>/${parent_id}/<child-resource>/${child_id}
```

`POST` and `PATCH` request bodies only contain the [data type](https://github.com/jsmit257/huautla/blob/master/types/data.go) of the child resource, but all methods including `DELETE` return a type of parent resource with all child resources populsted.

Status codes for the preceeding resources are:
- Sussessful `POST` returns `201 Created` and the new resource with a newly-generated `id` attribute
- Successful `DELETE` returns `204 No Content`
- Successful anything else returns `200 OK`
- Errors are either `400 Bad Request` or `500 Internal Server Error`. Error responses also contain a `cid:` header which is the unique correlation ID generated by the server for each request and written on each log message in the call-stack. Error response bodies are a work in progress - right now they're not very informative.

Only `PATCH /substrate/$substrate_id/ingredients/$current_ingredient_id` as it doesn't use surrogate keys to identify the record that needs changing, so '$current_ingredient_id' is what's in the database now, and the request body contains the new ingredient identifier. Keep in mind that the child resource type in this case is `SubstrateIngredient`, *not* `Ingredient`

Status codes for these parent/child methods are the same as above, except `DELETE` returns `200 OK` and a response body as described above

An additional convenience method is provided to get a list of unique strain attribute names:

```
GET /strainattributenames  # returns an array of strings
```

